---
layout: post
title: "SSLyze v0.10 Released"
date: 2014-09-21 12:02:06 -0700
post_author: Alban Diquet
categories: ssl sslyze
---


I just released a new version of [SSLyze][sslyze-gh] which brings new features
and improvements. As usual, pre-compiled packages available in the [release
section][sslyze-release] of the project's page on GitHub.


### Diffie-Hellmann Parameters Size

When listing the cipher suites supported by the server, SSLyze will now
display the size of the Diffie-Hellmann parameters for DHE and ECDHE
cipher suites. The output looks like this:

    * SSLV3 Cipher Suites:
      Preferred:
                 ECDHE-RSA-RC4-SHA             ECDH-256 bits  128 bits


The DHE and ECDHE cipher suites are being widely deployed because they provide
[perfect forward secrecy][eff-pfs]. However, a server using extremely weak
Diffie-Hellmann parameters would give an attacker the ability to crack the
session key and decrypt the SSL traffic. Adam Langley wrote a [blog
post][dh-size] about it:

> So the first way to mess up forward secrecy is to use under sized DH groups.
Ideally the DH group would match or exceed the RSA key size but 1024-bit DHE
is arguably better than straight 2048-bit RSA so you can get away with that if
you want to. If you're using ECDHE then you don't need to worry about it being
too small because the smallest EC group that clients support (P-256) is far,
far stronger than 2048-bit RSA anyway.

Major props to [@elvanderb][elvanderb-twitter] who had to mess with OpenSSL
internals in order to get the DH parameters' properties and implemented this
feature from scratch!


### Full Certificate Chain Returned

Previous versions of SSLyze only returned the server's leaf certificate when
using the `--certinfo` option. The full certificate chain is now returned in
the tool's XML output to allow for further processing/validation.


### Chrome SHA-1 Deprecation Plugin

Google has started the process of [deprecating SHA1-signed certificates
][google-sha1] by displaying additional HTTPS warnings in upcoming versions
of Chrome. The `--chrome_sha1` option can be used to check whether a server's
certificate chain will be affected by these changes:

    * Google Chrome SHA-1 Deprecation Status:
      Chrome 41 behavior: AFFECTED - SHA1-signed certificate(s) will trigger the "Secure, but minor errors" icon.

Thanks to [@tomrittervg][tomrittervg-twitter] for coming up with the idea and the initial implementation.


### Python no Longer Required on Windows

The Windows release is now packaged as a single executable and no longer
requires Python.


### SSLyze is now Hosted on my own GitHub Account

Of lesser importance, I have also moved the SSLyze active repository to my
[personal GitHub account][sslyze-gh]. The original repository will no longer be
updated so please update your bookmarks. If you cloned the repo, you can update the
repo's origin by using the following command:

    git remote set-url origin https://github.com/nabla-c0d3/sslyze.git


### Full Changelog

* PluginOpenSSLCipherSuites now displays the size of the handshake's Diffie-Hellmann parameters
* SSLyze on Windows is now packaged as a single .exe file
* PluginCertInfo now displays the server's full certificate chain instead of its leaf certificate only, in both the console and XML results
* PluginHSTS now properly detects HSTS headers when receiving HTTP redirections
* New plugin to check if a server is affected by Chrome's deprecation of SHA1-signed certificates. See --chrome_sha1
* Clarified the console output of most plugins and checks
* Bug fixes for XML output and client certificate support
* Updated OpenSSL to 1.0.1i
* Updated Microsoft, Apple and Mozilla trust stores



[eff-pfs]: https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2014/04/why-web-needs-perfect-forward-secrecy
[sslyze-gh]: https://github.com/nabla-c0d3/sslyze
[sslyze-release]: https://github.com/nabla-c0d3/sslyze/releases
[google-sha1]: http://googleonlinesecurity.blogspot.com/2014/09/gradually-sunsetting-sha-1.html
[dh-size]: https://www.imperialviolet.org/2013/06/27/botchingpfs.html
[elvanderb-twitter]: https://twitter.com/elvanderb
[tomrittervg-twitter]: https://twitter.com/tomrittervg
